This is an interview with Dr. J. George H.
Thompson, professor emeritus of mechanical
engineering at Texas A&M. Today's date is
November 5th, 1981. Let's begin, Dr. Thompson, by
you telling us something about your early years.
Where and when were you born, and what we hear
growing up your life. How do I speak? Well, just
leave it there. Stop my fussing. I was born in
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, April 11, 1911, 70
years ago. I had a very happy childhood as I'm
having a very happy retirement. I was brought up in
an industrial city. I spent most of my time in shops
when I wasn't in school. I worked in every sort of
shop around the city. I worked in a drawing room. I
worked in a machine shop. I worked in a foundry. And
I became somewhat skilled in use of my hands in all
the various shops. I worked in a tin shop. I took a
mechanical arts course in high school and also a
college preparatory course, a double course in
high school. I then went to Penn State where I got a
baccalaureate degree in mechanical engineering
in June of 1933. Tell us about your father. What was
his occupation? My father was a foundryman. He was
the part owner and manager of a cast iron foundry.
And in later years, he developed the business to
include iron, aluminum, brass, bronze, and all
sorts of metals. He would take a job, a large job,
and he would break it up and give each foundry and
each shop that portion it could do well and deliver
the finished product, whatever it be, to the
customer. Sometimes a series of castings,
sometimes machine parts, sometimes assembled
machines. And he had some 50 years experience in
the Philadelphia region as a foundry. And I grew to
learn and love machinery as a result of my contact
with my father and all the people with whom he
dealt. About six years old, I knew I was either
going to be a preacher or a teacher. and I loved
machinery. So I decided to take mechanical
engineering, learn machine design, which I've
taught ever since, and I have never regretted the
choice. I knew I'd better be a teacher instead of a
preacher because I think I'd gotten kicked out of
the churches because I have a sense of humor that's
a little flippant for a preacher. But it's been a
good life, and I found at A&M a rewarding
experience in which you feel that you seriously
have contributed and you can respect and at the
same time I found no end of love on the part of my
colleagues and my superiors and my students and
it's been a great life, period. Tell us about when
you went to Penn State in 1933. I went in 1929, was
graduated in 33.
Now let's see, what sort of things would you like to
know about Penn State? What kind of school it was?
It was a wonderful school. We had about 4,000
students at the time. It was in what might be called
a crude stage. All the streets did not have lights.
There were only four lighted blocks in the whole
city and the campus combined. And in my freshman
year, if you went out after dark, you had to carry a
flashlight because that's the only way you could
tell whether you're going to walk into a ditch.
Those were the old sort of primitive days. Penn
State is way up in the mountains, and it is now a
40,000 campus, very sophisticated. But in 1929,
it was very primitive. What city is it in? It's in
its own city of college, State College,
Pennsylvania. And the name has been changed to
College Park, Pennsylvania since. Both names are
still used. It's 38 miles from the nearest
railroad station. And on cold days when the snow
was heavy, people couldn't get over the mountain
from the trains. And we would sometimes be
isolated for a couple of days. We had a very
wonderful faculty. We had an excellent college of
engineering, and it was a very rich experience. I
was a fraternity man, and I was very active in
student affairs. I was vice president of the Penn
State Christian Association in my senior year.
And I feel that we had a very, very rich four years of
student activities and academic instruction.
How were you affected by the Depression? We were
completely wiped out. My father's business went
bankrupt. The bank in which we had our life savings
went bankrupt, and the building alone in which we
had a nest egg went bankrupt. Daddy had $50,000
saved up, and the idea was that I was to go to Germany
and get a master's or maybe a doctorate degree. We
had the money in the bank. And in a matter of a couple
of weeks, we lost every penny we had, including
that. So I was transformed from the son of someone
who had prepared financially for his son to
someone who had no money. For some time each
morning, Father and I would put a new piece of
cardboard in our shoes because we had a hole in the
soles and we couldn't afford to have them
repaired. Later on we found that Woolworth had a
little 10 cent kit with a little rubber sole and a
little scraper and a little tube of cement and we'd
put those on our shoes because we couldn't afford
to take them to the shoemaker. Daddy couldn't
afford a medical doctor so for a while he would go to
a free clinic in the city. All of his business
companions, I believe, went legally bankrupt. My
father would not. He spent about 11 years paying
his debts and finally paid everyone off. So the
bank The depression hit us very hard financially,
but it did not affect us spiritually. I think our
family was as strong and probably as happy after
the loss as before. The money really didn't matter
that much. I went back to my senior year in college
with a total of $11 cash. I got a job waiting tables,
and I got no money for that, but I got all the food I
could eat. And I got odd jobs doing carpentry work.
and helping professors put on their storm doors
for the winter and earn enough money that way to
take care of my other needs, I borrowed $300 from a
foundation to take care of my tuition and books.
And I had a very lean senior year financially, but a
very rich senior year in all other ways. So the
Depression wasn't all bad for us. Did your father
finally recover from the financial loss? He
recovered, but he never again had any money ahead
as he had had before. He recovered in the sense that
he paid all his bills, and he earned enough money to
pay his own way. And so he could take care of
himself, but he never again was able to collect the
kinds of money he had collected before. What year
did he die? He was 85.
I was very sickly as a child, barely surviving
childbirth. And at approximately age 20, I seemed
to take a turn, and I have grown much stronger ever
since. And at the present time, I would say I'm in
excellent health.
What about your mother? What did she do to help the
family during the Depression? She was a loving
mother and wife and a good housewife. And she gave
both father and myself great strength, wisdom,
and support.
After you completed a degree at Penn State in 1933,
what did you do then? I worked for six months
building a machine myself, there being no jobs
available. Several machine shops in
Philadelphia permitted me to use their
facilities. And I made a machine which I gave to the
college. And shortly thereafter, the college
recommended me for a job. And in January of 1934, I
went to work in Ludlow, Massachusetts.
L-U-D-L-O-W. It's next to Springfield in
southwestern Massachusetts. And I was a design
engineer there for approximately four years. I
designed all sorts of machinery, some for local
and some for international use. At the end of that
period, I got a professional degree of mechanical
engineering from Penn State based on my
experience, and I came down to Texas A&M in
September 1938 to teach machine design. In later
years, I got first the master's and then the Ph.D.
from Texas A&M. I'm a registered professional
engineer in the state of Texas, and I'm doing
consulting for a major corporation today. When
did you get the advanced degrees? I got the
master's in 1950 and the doctorate in 1962. What
was the subject of your dissertation research? A
three-dimensional photoelastic study
involving photoelasticity and computer
analysis. It involved beam-on-elastic
foundation theory and some other topics that
perhaps are more technical than you need to worry
about now. You've been at A&M since 1938. This is my
44th year teaching at A&M. How did you happen to
decide to come here all the way from
Massachusetts? I wanted very much to get into
teaching because I knew I wanted that for life
work. I was engaged, but I wanted my job before I got
married. I wrote between 90 and 100 letters of
application. This was another, in 1938, was
another recession of some severity. Of the 90 to
100 letters of application, I received only one
favorable answer. That was from Texas A&M. So I
came here knowing nothing about the school,
simply because it was the only place that had a job.
Other colleges were letting professors go. We
were mushrooming and ever since we have had
prosperity at A&M to much greater measure than
many, many colleges in the country. I think the two
most important things in my life were coming to A&M
and getting married. When did you get married? I
got married in June of 1939. What about your wife's
background? She came from Ludlow, Massachusetts
where her father was town attorney and had other
offices in the town and was very active in all the
life of that town. She come from a family very
active in the church work of the town. And I met her
partly through Sunday school activity. And being
a small town, we were thrown together quite a bit.
Does she regret moving all the way from
Massachusetts? Oh, no. She fell in love with
Texas. And she especially liked the friendliness
of the people here in Texas. as a Yankee yourself,
and you found the Texans are friendly? Yes, but I
wasn't a Yankee at the first. I'm a Yankee almost
now. A little while ago, I was a damn Yankee, but
when I first came here, there were two words before
the Yankee, and I found that the people here are
friendly, are friendly deep inside, and I never
want to leave this part of the country. OK, what
about your teaching career over all this time?
Would you elaborate a little more on that? I would
say that I'm a teacher who loves a subject, in my
case, machine design, and who loves each student
equally well. And I have loved the teaching. It's
been a very rewarding experience. And I
practically never find myself in a big city
airport on a trip but that I come across a former
student. And the former students are simply
wonderful. I think I love them, and they love me,
and I think I have reached some students in a modest
way. I love them. They're wonderful people, and to
share my life with these fine people has been a very
wonderful life. Period. You've taught machine
design all through this time. Yes, sir. I have
taught many other courses, but my main course is
machine design. I do a marvelous job. When did you
become a full professor? That I cannot... tell you
I don't remember but I can find no I don't I just
don't remember oh goodness gracious this was I'd
say 20 or 30 years ago no yeah I
did when I was younger and now I'm glad I didn't
because I think I'm happiest although I had a touch
of administration in In the years that I had, for
six or seven years, I had a three-month summer
program sponsored by the National Science
Foundation for talented secondary students. And
then the college chose to name me the director of
the All-University Honors Program. And I
occupied that post for six or seven years until I
retired in August of 77. And that was very
rewarding. And to some little extent, that was
administrative. At one time, I thought of such
things as department heads and deans. Now I'm very
happy that it's worked out the way it is. I've been
able to meet more wonderful students, and I've had
the time to work with the students. And I'm very
grateful for the way things have worked out. What
are some of the changes that you've seen on this
campus over this 40-something year period? I
think I see a change not on this campus alone but
nationally from a primary emphasis on teaching of
undergraduate individuals to a primary emphasis
on scientific recognition on the part of the
professors. This is national, not just A&M. I
think at A&M I find an increasing The excellence of
equipment, of facilities, far better academic
training of the professors than we used to have. I
think we probably are doing our best technical job
today. The teachers are better equipped than they
used to be academically. They have better tools to
work with. They've had more training before they
started teaching. I would say that A&M is becoming
a very creditable institution, honored
internationally, whereas 50 years ago we were
known in Texas, but people did not take us
seriously out of Texas.
Have you mostly concentrated on teaching or what
about your research activities? I've had seven
years full time in industry doing machine design
in addition to my teaching. I have done very little
research because my field happens to be machine
design where the end product is to make a piece of
hardware that works. And my consulting at the
present time is in that field. where rather than
write a paper about something, I actually build
something that works. In my opinion, it's no more
worthy and no less worthy than the writing of
papers. But it's a characteristic of my kind of
engineering that you devote your attention to
creating, building, and perfecting a total
machine.
engineering college began to devote so much
attention to research and what caused this to
occur?
I think, did you say engineering colleges or our
engineering college? Both. Okay. Colleges in
general, colleges like MIT, Harvard, Princeton,
University of Pennsylvania, always put
engineering research on a very, very high
priority level. A&M evidently now seeks to become
recognized as what we call a first-class
university, whatever that means. I'm not sure
what that means. And such universities all put the
publication of scholarly paper or important
practical work on a high level in engineering or
whatever the subject as increasingly important
and this is good it's not all bad and this took this
came about gradually I would say since World War II
we have seen it accelerate and at the present time
the general feeling is that we ought to become
expert in our field of knowledge on a higher
technical level than before. This is a blending of
our thoughts with the international trends all
over the world. Now the reason for this is that when
you design a 747 aircraft, the consequences of
failure are exceedingly serious. Fifty years
ago, we just didn't design equipment that would
hurt many people if it broke down. Today we design
much equipment that would kill people if it breaks
down. So we're having, all over the world, we're
having to be more careful since we're going to
higher pressures, higher temperatures, and
higher speeds. It's that simple.
What changes have you seen in the engineering
program at A&M with the enrollment of women in the
program? The women are increasing the academic
quality of the program in most cases. They do their
homework more regularly. They study harder. They
make better grades. So I would say that the women,
who I feel are a most wholesome and praiseworthy
group, are contributing in increasing the
academic quality of the teaching of the student
work at A&M. The biggest liability these girls
suffer is their inability to visualize spatially
and their inability to visualize hardware. This
does not in any way suggest that the women aren't
smart. It simply says that when they were playing
with dolls, boys were fixing their cars. And so the
boys have heard what a wrench is, what a spanner is.
It's a wrench. what a gear is, what a bearing is,
what spark advance means. And the little girls at
the same age never had an opportunity to learn
those things. So when we get into serious
engineering problems, you have to explain and
draw pictures of many, many machine elements with
which the girls are not familiar and the boys are.
So I would say that the girls are wholesome. They
have every quality that the boys have
ability-wise, but that their background has not
provided them with as ample a knowledge of current
hardware and conventional terms. What about the
black steelers? Are there any black steelers in
engineering? And if so, why? I think that A&M has
been particularly forward in being fair to the
black students. We don't have time to go into many
specific cases, but I feel that I'm proud of A&M's
part in that. I've had black students in class. I
had a delightful conversation with one who now is
with General Electric and doing a fine job. And
I've had some excellent ones up to whom I have not
been able to give equally high grades. The thing
holding them back now is not in any way any attitude
or performance at A&M but simply that usually they
come with an inferior background from their
previous schools. They simply do not know their
algebra as well as our people do and in graduate
work in particular they haven't had the
opportunity to have equal education. Now, as a
people, they're just as capable as we are, and when
we give them equal education, as is taking place
today, more every day, they will excel and we'll
have just as many black people succeed as white
people. There's no question about that. It's
simply a question that Many of them went through a
period of their life where they didn't get as good
education as the white people living in the same
town. I'm proud of A&M. I think A&M has been more
than fair. I don't want to go to too many cases, but I
remember one case of a black boy who acted
strangely. And I finally had pinned him down. And
it seemed that Pytos Sigma had not taken him in. And
he felt he was discriminated against. We found it
had nothing to do with his color, but he had come
from Lamar, and somehow the big computer had not
credited him with the credit hours he transferred
from Lamar. This happens every now and then, black
or white. And so on the eligibility list, his name
never appeared. The instant I pointed this out to
the Pythos Sigma officers, they held a special
meeting, they elected in membership, and they
initiated him within, I think, a week or so later.
And so we can cite many cases. I'm proud of A&M. I
think we have welcomed the black people, not
because they're black, but just because they're
people. And I think we have been very fair. I'm real
proud of the way we're going. I think as soon as
these people get the training necessary, that
they'll find in A&M a place to do serious work
without any regard to race. Are you involved in
teaching graduates and undergraduates? No
longer. Since the day I retired, I was removed from
the graduate faculty. Because after 65, you're
senile and you no longer are capable of such
advanced work. I have had Ph.D. students and
master's students in my earlier years, and some of
them are doing beautifully today. Well, you're
younger than the present. Sure, sure.
Would you recommend that a bachelor's degree
holder in mechanical engineering pursue
graduate studies today if their goal were to work
in the industry, or would you recommend that they
just work? I think it would be inappropriate to
make a blanket statement. That's something like,
do people like apple pie? Some people do, some do
not. Now, specifically, if they go with
Westinghouse, say, Westinghouse would rather
have them not have even a master's. They'd like to
have them go and get a baccalaureate degree only.
And then I'm thinking the South Philadelphia
works. And then spend about a semester or so
getting their place in the company. Then the
company will help them financially and in other
ways to blend a master's program into their work at
Westinghouse. This way, the company can afford to
very substantially assist them. And they, in
turn, can take courses so their master's program
they take at, say, University of Pennsylvania at
night will tie in with the work they're doing a day
at the plant. And they'll come out with a very rich
master's program. There are a number of companies
who like to do that. They like to have them
integrate their master's program with the work at
the plant. Westinghouse in Pittsburgh and other
companies I know of also will substantially
contribute to the PhD program if you will
integrate it so there's a possibility that you
might bring your PhD training back to the company
later. And they expect that a few will come and many
won't come. But I'd say that it depends on the
individual case. I know a company in Houston that
doesn't want you unless you have a PhD. And I know
other companies that can't use you as well unless
you have only the baccalaureate. They'd like to
have a hand in your training. How do you think the
mechanical engineering program at A&M compares
with such programs at other universities? Well,
there again, you've asked in a short interview a
20-hour discussion, because every college is
quite different. I would say that the master's
program at A&M, as it was when I retired when I was
acquainted with it, was quite a superior program
and represented one of the better schools. I would
say that as of the day I retired that our PhD program
did not have the faculty, the equipment, or the
ongoing research to be as rewarding to the student
as MIT or Stanford. I think that we are growing, and
with the passage of time, I think we will grow into
being a very fine graduate school in engineering.
MIT and Stanford and certain of those schools have
a little advantage in that they have millions and
millions of dollars of equipment, staff, and
ongoing research. And I believe that we are going
to be just as good as those schools in time.
Could you discuss any changes in the
Oh, yes, yes. The students know more book learning
today than they did 40 years ago. The students do
not possess the common sense nor the personal
resourcefulness that their predecessors knew.
Now, this is simple. 40, 50 years ago, a boy in Texas
had to be careful to not be bitten by a rattlesnake.
If he lived in West Texas, he had many adventures in
his daily life that involved danger. Today, we're
getting concrete roads everywhere. We're having
policemen everywhere. I remember when there were
no policemen in College Station. I went to the
district judge to ask him what to do, and he said,
get a Colt 38. And that's a little different than
the attitude today. So in the old days, from
childhood, a boy in Texas learned to rely upon his
wits and keep his eyes open against danger. Today
we're becoming more cultured, more civilized,
subject to many, many more rules and regulations.
People look out for us more. High schools today
look out for the kids a lot more than they did 40
years ago. That means that the kids are getting
better academic training, but they're not as
resourceful, they're not as tough in themselves
because they don't have to fend for themselves
quite as much. These people today will be just as
successful as their predecessors, but they're
going to get their capabilities in a different
sequence. They're going to get their jolts after
college. The other kids had quite a few jolts
before they came. Has there been any period of
time, any particular year, that the quality of the
students that you were involved with was superior
to those above all of the others? Oh, yes. The first
couple of groups of combat veterans who came back
were tough, eager, worked very hard. I remember
one boy in particular who had flown a hundred
combat missions. He would sit on the front row,
McGuire was his last name, and he would listen. I
never saw him take a note. And I believe two months
later he could recite word for word everything I
said. He wouldn't have been able to survive 100
combat missions if he hadn't developed the
capacity for tremendous observation and memory.
And he remembered the dangers and was attentive to
them. And in class, he made A every time. Because
those first groups after the combat, they and some
who didn't come back paid heavily for their
learning. The only way they got back alive was to
become alert. And when they come back, they were
mature, they were alert, and they were aware that
they lost a couple of years. They were great. They
were great. They weren't any better individuals
than students today, but the students today
haven't had such a painful price to pay to get
maturity fast. Have there been any specific
instances that you can cite in other cases in which
students on an individual basis show great talent
or resourcefulness that you Oh, yes. I don't want
to have to pull names out of the hat today. Toppy
Pierce was one, but we have had a number of cases of
extremely brilliant students. Carl, oh, fudge,
Carl, oh, I can't think of his last name now. Oh,
he's now just doing tremendously with General
Dynamics in Fort Worth. He is in charge of all
automatic controls on the modern airplanes in
Fort Worth. He's got a tremendous job. He got a
recognition as the outstanding master's student
when I was his master's chairman, and later he won a
prize as the outstanding doctoral student at
Texas A&M. And Carl has justified that. He has gone
right up the ladder, and he's making major
contributions today. Yes, I don't know whether
I've answered your question. I haven't given you
enough details, but we have had some very, very
unusual students and students who have
contributed much to their profession. Have there
been any that you've been associated with who
overcame great handicaps from poor family
backgrounds and so forth? Yes, there was a black
boy, and I'm not going to mention his name. I think
it would be improper. Because of his race and
because of the low income level of his family and
the kind of clothes he wore, he was arrested going
through one of our modern cities, one of our big
cities in Texas, simply because he looked out of
place in the nice neighborhood. And this was an
improper action on the part of the police, I
believe, the way they arrested him. But
nevertheless, he came to A&M with a chip on his
shoulder. And he was clearly of a minority. He had
much against him, mental attitude, everything.
And we worked on that boy. And we challenged him. I
remember several ways we challenged him. We
turned him around. And he became impressed with
our set of values. He's with a major corporation
today. He has a nice family. He's going right up the
ladder. He's a complete success. He overcome not
only the lack of money, the lack of social graces,
but he overcome his bad attitudes. And I'm proud
again, I'm very proud of A&M. This was one of many
boys that A&M turned around because we have given
many students a good, what I'm proud to call,
American set of values. They raise good families,
they're good clean living people, and they
contribute much to the world about them.
I remember another boy that came back with lost an
arm at Okinawa. This isn't what you asked me, but
it's another case. And I remember that boy very
well. He had every reason to be a handicap. And what
happened there, it was critical that he not whine
or complain. And we got another student who had
lost the same arm in Austria and got them in a room
together. And I couldn't speak to the boy who lost
his arm because I didn't lose my arm, but the other
boy who lost his arm could, and I could hear through
the door some unprintable words, well, you
so-and-so, don't you have guts enough to take care
of your problems? And that changed this boy's
life, and this happened at A&M. And the boy who was
just wavering decided he better be a man. I graded
him just as harshly for four drawings as if he'd had
two arms. I didn't relent a bit. And so he got
toughened up to face the world as it was, as he was.
And he went into industry and was a good success.
A&M has contributed so much that's wholesome and
good to many people. I hope we keep that strength
that's A&M. And I think we have a greater measure of
that strength in many, many schools. What about
the rivalry between the University of Texas at
Austin and A&M? What do you have to comment about
that? Yes, I think I have a delightful true story on
that. I had a small part in the forming of a society
here called Pito Sigma, a branch of a National
Honor Society. And I told our boys who were
interested in forming our society that I was going
over to Austin to see if their chapter would help us
get started. And I remember vividly one of our boys
said, well, sir, don't drive over there with a
college station license plate. They'll throw
bricks at you, which was so silly. In other words,
our undergraduates really had a rivalry that was
almost unwholesome. I went over there, and the
first thing their boys said when I said what I was
there for, one boy raised his hand and was
recognized by the chair and said, Sir, I wish that
we would make it unanimous to support Texas A&M.
The Aggies are very fine people, and I, for one,
would be proud to have them in our honor society.
And they even went so far as to elect all our
candidates, so if we didn't get our charter, they
would elect them. Through their group, they would
elect them into Paito Sigma. And the University of
Texas at Austin staff and student body alike just
went out of their way to help us. Now, our students
didn't understand it at the time, but I think later
when they reflected on it, they found that there is
a normal, wholesome rivalry which I hope never
subsides. But beyond that, there is a camaraderie
that says we are all one.
What are some of your observations about the rapid
growth of the university in the last 43 years? When
did this growth start? This started as far as I was
concerned in 1938 because the reason I got my job
here was that when other colleges over the nation
were actually letting professors go because
they're Their enrollment had dwindled. We had so
many new students here that we took on seven new
instructors in mechanical engineering alone in
September of 1938. We were mushrooming. We were a
very small school then, but we were rapidly
increasing. And I suspect that we have grown more
rapidly than many other colleges. We just never
seemed to stop. Of course, there was a time in World
War II when they just took practically every boy on
the campus into the Army. Pardon me, but that's not
an ordinary circumstance. I don't really know why
we have such an increase in enrollment. It may be
that so many people of high caliber are moving down
here to the Sun Belt that their children want to go
to college. It may be, and it could well be, that
they respect what students get here. I don't know
that. I really think, even though I'm one of the
staff, that we give a more rigorous course here
than many engineering colleges. And I do know that
many companies pay more for an Aggie than they
would for many other schools. And I also know that
it's harder to get great points here than at some of
the other schools. I would say that Rice, Austin,
and A&M are each an excellent school, each has a
slightly different end desire, and that all three
are worthy of greatest respect.
I have been
too far removed from that level of activity to make
any intelligent comment. I'm not trying to get out
of commenting. It's just that that's rather far
removed from a classroom teacher.
Do you have any other amusing stories to tell about
former students or instances that have occurred
here over this long period of time? Well, I guess it
was amusing. Yes, I guess we could have several.
I think I'd better not get these down on tape, but
there were some funny things, including the time
when we all came in 1938. Professor Berryman and I
each had one suit with two pair of pants. We were
poor then, very poor. He had his one pair of pants
and his coat and vest in at the cleaner. He was in
taking a shower, so I hid his only other pair of
pants under his mattress. And I come to class and
forgot. So Professor Berryman couldn't find his
pants, so he called the department to tell the
secretary that he couldn't come to class because
he couldn't find his pants. And she being a girl, he
was embarrassed and hung up. So he called a few
minutes later, and Professor Crawford, who was
then head of the department... immediately said,
Mr. Berryman, just hold the line and I'll ask Mr.
Thompson where your trousers are. Now, why he
thought of me, I'll never know, but he came over and
knocked at my door and he said, Mr. Thompson, have
you taken Mr. Berryman's trousers? And I said,
yes, sir. They're under the mattress, sir, in his
room. And he said, thank you, Mr. Thompson. I
thought I might as well buy a ticket back to
Pennsylvania. I'd been here about a month and I was
already in trouble. And there were several other
little incidents that happened like that that
sound pretty silly, but they did happen. Isn't
he delightful? Yes,
several other things have happened. I think old
Jelly Belly was the fondest term with which I am
referred.
We have a lot of fun. We have had an awful lot of fun. I
think usually when the boys play a trick on me, I
laugh as hard as they do. I think it's fun. There
were a number of, I think before we go, I'd like to
tell something that wasn't funny, but it's
touching. The president of Pytos Sigma had been in
the army one year. He'd been in the army, and his
tummy was pretty well damaged. And he collapsed
one day on his way home to near Temple, Texas, where
they lived. He and his wife come from there. And she
took him to Scott and White immediately, and they
found that Morris was a pretty sick boy and he
needed some blood. So within two or three days came
a Saturday, and two carload of Aggies went up
immediately to give blood for Mars. The promise
with which they did it and the sincerity with which
they did it almost would bring tears. We have
something here at A&M. We have a spirit of
brotherhood that we don't talk about. Aggies
think it's not manly to say nice things, but our
hearts are very warm. I've seen many, many
instances where people did things for their
buddies. And I'm proud of that aspect also of our
fine school. This is a great school. It's not an
ordinary school. Was there any other thing you
need to say before we close? No, I've enjoyed
talking with you. I would say that anybody that's
had the privilege of spending a lifetime at A&M is
far richer for the experience. And I think, again,
A&M is a wonderful place to work, partly because
it's fun. but more because you seriously respect
yourself for being a part of this kind of a serious
environment. Period. Thank you very much. Thank
you. And thank you very much for postponing it from
Tuesday.